>> This is "Nuevo," the second
ship that came down near
the most sheltered
place on Earth.
[THEME MUSIC]
[ENGINE ROARING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> On July 3, 1947, 22 months
and 17 days after the first
unidentified flying object came
down in the vicinity of Los
Alamos nuclear power plant,
very close to San Antonio,
New Mexico, reports were
received that a second ship
of unknown origin had
also fallen to Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The crash landing of
the second ship in Roswell,
New Mexico was an incident
that caused great concern
to high-ranking
military officers.
It was evident
that unknown beings
had a great interest in the
construction and development
of atomic bombs by humans.
Two ships that had come down
so close to the one place
in the world where nuclear
bombs were built and tested
represented a grave warning.
The high military commanders
of the United States
were very concerned
that our world
was facing a great danger, one
that had to be kept secret,
circumstances that would
change the perception
of the extraterrestrial
phenomenon forever.
Until that day,
the crash landing
and recovery of a
ship in San Antonio,
New Mexico on August 16,
1945 had remained a secret.
But a second incident
only 150 miles away,
some 240 kilometers from each
other, changed everything.
Unlike the San Antonio case,
where only four or five people
were direct witnesses
of the incident,
in the case of
Roswell, there were
at least 150 individual
eyewitnesses and more than 600
indirect witnesses.
In Roswell, before being able
to conceal the information,
it had already transcended
to a high level of attention
in the media.
Most everyone had heard about
the strange alien crashes
on July 9, 1947.
In the name of security, a
disinformation and falsehood
campaign on the
extraterrestrial phenomenon
claimed that lives had been
lost and careers ruined.
The extraterrestrial phenomenon
was in the headlines,
and people were concerned it
would be a national security
threat for America.
On July 8 of 1947, the
"Roswell Daily Record"
published the news that in
the vicinity of their town,
the Air Force had recovered
a ship that fell from space.
[WHOOSHING]
>> The ship found in Roswell,
New Mexico was the first ones
recovered by the Air Force.
The ship that was
found in San Antonio
was recovered by the Navy
or the United States Army.
Perhaps, for this reason, there
was no extensive communication
between both authorities.
Perhaps because of this,
the news of ship crashes
came to light.
However, our
investigation would show
that there were other
plans, that there
was a real conspiracy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In Roswell, New Mexico, two
flying ships were recovered
as well as five or six
alien being corpses.
One of the ships that was
found had little damage,
while the other ship
exploded after crashing
to the earth in fiery flames.
Two dead bodies were recovered
that were not heavily damaged,
and two other bodies suffered
considerable injuries.
But most profound was the
being that was still alive.
It was thought that the reason
these ships fell to the ground
was due to a bad storm.
However, according to
the Guy Hottel memorandum
that was addressed to J.
Edgar Hoover in March of 1950,
Air Force personnel
thought that the ships
had fallen as a result
of strong radars
that it interfered with
their navigation system.
This opinion was stated
in the memorandum
but had been
discredited by the FBI,
even though all the information
presented in the documents
was confirmed as
accurate evidence.
It is a fact that the ships
fell to the earth in New Mexico,
that they crashed because
of high-frequency microwave
radars in the area.
These radars not only
affected the ships
of extraterrestrial
ships, but American planes
that approached them have
experienced problems too.
Of the four ships
that fell and were
recovered with some damage, one
more disintegrated completely.
[WHOOSHING]
>> Donald Schmidt and Tom Carey
are the researchers who have
investigated extensively
into the history of Roswell.
Their research that
took more than 30 years
is a historical record
of what happened there.
They have been able
to interview more
than 600 indirect witnesses and
150 direct witnesses of what
happened.
Thanks to them, this research
instigated our "Nuevo" team
to be sent to
Roswell, New Mexico
and examine all the details and
make our own findings known.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
[FIRE ROARING]
>> This is the very
site that Mac Brazel,
we believe the early
morning of July 4,
after a severe lightning
storm, came upon this area
and discovered just this massive
area of unusual extraordinary
debris.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Thanks to Donald Schmidt, the
key investigator on the Roswell
case, they were in the same
place where Mac Brazel found
remains of an equally amazing
debris field from the crash.
>> As long as he was only
dealing with material here,
he was making every effort.
He was going into the
nearest town of Corona.
He went to his nearest neighbor,
Floyd and Loretta Proctor,
about 10 miles from here.
>> So Mac Brazel traveled 10
miles, about 16 kilometers,
with a sample of the ship's
material that was unknown
to him.
Mac thought that his
closest neighbors
might be able to help him
understand what he saw.
>> But at the time, in '47,
he didn't have a television,
no radio, or telephone.
So he had no way of
knowing that there were
a lot of sightings going on.
He didn't even know
about the flying saucers.
But one by one, they
were all telling him
it could be one of those flying
disks they're talking about.
And he still had no idea what
they were really describing.
>> Alien material from an
airship that nobody had seen
before--
and according to Donald
Schmidt, even 64 years later,
this material is still
not fully understood.
>> No one could recognize it.
No one could identify
the material.
And everyone
described the material
as being way beyond any of
our technology at that time,
and even by today's standards.
Memory material, for example,
that right before your eyes--
paper thin that you could
not cut, you couldn't burn,
and yet you could crumble it.
You could crease it.
You could fold it up.
And you'd lay it down, and
it would flow like water.
It would just smooth right out.
Well, we don't even have such
material by today's standards,
and yet this was in '47.
And that's one of the things
that the skeptics never
take into account, that
all of the witnesses
are describing materials that
defy conventional explanation.
And this is where
it all happened.
This is where that
material was all scattered.
And we will be back
here once again,
searching, and hoping to find
that needle in a haystack.
Because as you see,
we have done nothing
to create a tourist attraction.
We've kept our word to the ranch
owner that it remains private.
We have not commercialized it.
And we plan on coming
back and actually having
our fourth archaeological dig.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
Then we have three
sites and two events.
First event is an explosion.
>> Explosion.
>> Fails, goes to here--
>> Right.
>> And you call that
the debris field.
>> Debris field, correct.
>> And for some reason, two
of the bodies end up here.
>> End up here.
And then a pod, or a
capsule of some sort,
about the size of a
Volkswagen Beetle,
continue along this same
trajectory, east-southeast,
and come down much
closer to Roswell.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 64 years later, we were in
the same place where Mac Brazel
discovered the alien ship debris
that would have spread after
the impact.
Then, just two days later, Mr.
Brazel found a new crash site.
However, he didn't find any
parts of the craft there
but did find some alien corpses.
What he saw and discovered
there affected his life forever.
The smells, the dead bodies--
an impression that
would never leave him.
>> I'm sure that after
he found the remains,
that's when he realized
this was something that--
and it really shook him to
the core because he kept
describing, even afterwards,
that as he mentioned
in the presence of his
granddaughter that you
didn't want to see
what I saw out there.
You didn't want to be
there because it just--
again, it was something
that affected him
for the rest of his life.
>> It was right there
that Mac Brazel,
accompanied by
Timothy "Dee" Proctor,
the son of one of his neighbors,
found remains of beings that
were not of this planet.
Timothy took years
to reveal the story.
>> When his mother, Loretta, was
about to have some surgery that
was very serious, her son
stopped by the ranch house one
particular day and said mom,
I'd like to show you something.
And they got in
his pickup truck,
and he drove her
out into this area.
And they didn't go to
the debris field site.
They came on top of this
ridge, on top this bluff.
And they stepped out, and
all he would say was mom,
this is where Mac
found something else.
There was another-- there
was a young boy, another boy,
with Brazel at the time.
His name is Sydney
Jack-- they called him--
Wright.
And he admitted that
he was with Brazel
when they found the
bodies a couple of miles,
as he put it, from
the debris field.
>> One further testimony
supports this story.
Mac Brazel was interviewed by
Frank Joyce on a radio show.
Even in his
retirement, Mr. Brazel
revealed additional information
about what happened in 1947.
>> He was talking to Brazel.
And Brazel kept talking
about, it was just horrible.
It was just horrible.
And Joyce kept asking him, well,
what are you talking about?
And it was horrible--
Brazel kept going on.
And Joyce would say,
are you suggesting
there was something else?
And Joyce then said, well,
are you talking about bodies?
And Brazel kept going on-- you
wouldn't believe the smell.
The stench was terrible.
And Joyce suggests--
Well, you know they're
launching those rockets
over at White Sands?
Maybe they launched a monkey.
And Brazel fired back, they
weren't any damn monkeys.
They weren't human.
So--
>> And they were here?
And they were found here?
That's where we are?
>> This is where we are.
Yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What happened to the bodies?
What did the authorities
do with them?
A ship crashed on the
property of the Foster Ranch
on July 4, 1947.
There, Mac Brazel discovered
the remains of the alien saucer.
The previous night, there
had been a strong storm,
and some considered that the
ship had been hit by lightning
and had fallen to earth.
Mac grabbed a few
pieces of the ship
and took them to
Roswell to deliver them
to the authorities.
That was July 5, 1947.
>> That is where Brazel,
the first evening after he
discovered the debris--
he went back with
his pickup truck.
And he either loaded it
into the box or dragged it--
the largest piece.
>> On the morning of
Sunday, July 6, 1947,
Mac Brazel went to Roswell to
notify the authorities of what
he had found.
Once there, he went to see the
local sheriff, Sheriff George
Wilcox, who, in
turn, gave notice
to the military authorities
of the Roswell air base
in New Mexico that strange
remains of an aircraft
had been discovered on
Mr. Brazel's property.
Colonel William Blanchard
sent two military intelligence
officers to
investigate and recover
any strange objects that had
been scattered in the field.
They arrived at this small
shelter on July 6, 1947,
in the evening.
>> We're standing in front
of the old ranch house.
It was called-- still is--
the Hines House.
And this is where when Mac
Brazel led the two intelligence
officers, Major Jesse Marcell
and Captain Sheridan Cabot,
out to investigate
the debris field.
>> Commander Jesse Marcell, head
of intelligence for the 509th
Bombers Group in Roswell,
brought some of the materials
back to his base for inspection.
>> And the very night that
Marcell would return back from
the debris field with his
'42 Buick convertible full
of debris, full of wreckage--
the back seat, the trunk--
he would wake his son,
Jess Jr., and wife up--
take them into the kitchen.
And there, he had wreckage.
He had debris scattered all
over the kitchen floor--
wanted them to see
it before he took it
all the way to the base.
And it was there that Jesse Jr.,
examining one of the pieces,
noticed some of the
hieroglyphic-like symbology
and immediately observed that--
you know, noticed that
this was something
that his father had never seen
anything like this before.
And his father kept talking
about pieces of a flying
saucer, a flying saucer crash.
>> Another serviceman,
Colonel William Blanchard,
commander in chief of the
Roswell military base,
was also a witness.
Years later, his
daughter would reveal
what happened that night
in 1947, in his house where
the Blanchard family lived.
>> Blanchard's daughter, Dale,
describes that when her father
came home late that
night, that first night,
that he was beside himself
for being a big man--
he played football.
And there were little people.
There were little men.
And they weren't from here.
And then he would say that
they weren't from this earth.
So the family described how
when Blanchard came home
that this was something
very unsettling,
something that, again, defied
conventional explanation.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> This is the area that
the military would come
to and spend about three days--
50 to 60 men on hands and
knees, shoulder to shoulder,
picking up every last piece.
As one of the MPs
said to us, they
were told if doesn't
move, pick it up.
And so there were
trucks, and they
would take sacks,
over their shoulders,
full of the material.
>> Why they had to pick
every single piece?
>> Because they realized they
had something extraordinary.
It was something beyond
their comprehension,
and they wanted to
make sure that they
had every possible piece, not
only that any outside people
would possibly discover--
>> Like you.
>> Like us.
[CHUCKLES] But at
that time, there
were a lot of Soviet
spies, especially
given that the first atomic
bomb was detonated just
to the west of here.
And so as a result,
they were also
making sure that none of
it fell into enemy hands.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Everything that was
recovered at the crash site,
all the parts and bodies,
were transferred by the United
States Army to the P-3 hangar
of Building 84, which, in 1947,
was known as the Black Hangar.
>> This is where we taxi the
aircraft to load up certain
cargo.
This is where it all
happened, this very hangar.
This is where they
took the remains
of the ship and the bodies that
were recovered north of Roswell
in July of 1947.
>> In this hangar, where the
atomic bomber planes from
the Second World War were kept,
bodies of alien beings were
stored and examined, bodies
unlike any humans ever seen
before.
All the witnesses interviewed by
Donald Schmidt and his research
team were also there
to be interviewed.
They all claimed and
supported the same story,
that this case was authentic.
It really happened--
truths that had been
hidden for more than 60 years.
>> They saw two that were
obviously dead and one that was
alive and walking and talking.
>> He said that he went out and
found that when he got there
that he observed the crash
site, a circular-type ship crash
site.
And there was debris
strewn everywhere
and that he had
found three bodies.
They had large heads on them.
And at least one of
them was still alive
when they brought
him back to the base.
>> He said it happened.
I was out there.
I saw the crash site.
I saw the spacecraft.
And I saw the grays.
And "the grays" was in reference
to the color of the skin.
>> And some described,
for example,
not only seeing areas where
bodies were laid out with
a canvas tarpaulin covering
everything but the heads,
but then off to the side,
others would describe seeing
an egg-shaped object, a pod,
a capsule about the size
of a car.
And then others would describe
seeing areas of nothing
but wreckage scattered.
Because they were
actually attempting
to reassemble, almost like
a crash investigation,
portions of this unknown object.
>> The materials classified in
this hangar were moved to Fort
Worth, Texas on a flight that
left this operation center.
>> In in 1947, the very first
flight that transported actual
wreckage from the crash site
came through this building,
through this
operations building.
And that would have been
Major Jesse Marcell.
And the base commander,
Colonel William Blanchard,
was observed in this
building as the men escorted,
in boxes, open boxes, actual
replica, as far as remnants,
from the crash--
and came through a
hallway and there
was a B-29 that taxied up,
which was called Dave's Dream.
>> The bodies of the
alien beings were moved
to the restricted area.
Joseph Montoya, the vice
governor of New Mexico,
observed these amazing beings
recovered by the United States
Army.
>> Was beside himself--
he was distraught.
He was upset.
And all at once, he
went, they weren't human.
They weren't human.
You won't believe it.
And then later,
he would describe
that he was taken
into the hangar,
and he was shown what he
thought were children.
And he heard one
of them moaning.
And its leg was rocking, its
knee rocking back and forth.
It was alive.
And he saw that it wasn't human.
And he became immediately upset.
And get me out of here-- get
me away from here right away.
And that's when he called for
his friends to pick him up.
And he would always
warn them afterwards,
if you ever repeat
what I've told you,
I will say you're a liar.
I will say you're lying.
And he would also warn them
that I can't stop the FBI.
I can't stop the government
from hurting you.
So he warned them never
to talk about this again.
So it was after he had
passed away that they finally
started to confide to us and
repeat what he had originally
told them, that
they weren't human.
>> Today, thanks to witnesses
who saw what happened
in the hangar, as well as in the
hospital and the transferring
of those bodies to the
Wright-Patterson military base,
we know what really happened.
The witnesses decided to
speak before they died
and leave their testimony
for the history books.
>> One of our first 10
witnesses, Eli Benjamin,
who we describe in our
book, "Witness to Roswell,"
described how they were called
and assigned to guard duty over
at the hangar, Building 84.
And then they were
instructed to escort,
in ambulance trucks,
a number of gurneys,
transporting a number of
bodies to this very location.
It was there, as
they were unloading,
most likely from this area
right here, that one of the MPs
stepped on one of the
sheets, pulling it away
from one of the bodies
on one of the gurneys.
And it moved.
And the eyes opened.
And he saw that, clearly,
you know, it wasn't human,
that it was something, as
he describes to this day,
haunts him.
He gets very emotional
when he talks about it
because he can't forget the
face and that clearly it
was something beyond this
planet, beyond our existence
here.
>> Were these creatures hurt?
>> Some were described,
even at the crash site,
as being burned,
as being mangled.
Some were described as
uninjured, almost peaceful,
as in repose, as though they
were very serene even in dying.
And the surviving one was
described, at some point,
even walking on its own or
being brought in on a gurney.
And then as the
base administrator
who worked in the hospital, his
private secretary, Miriam Bush,
described that when she was
taken into an examination room
here at this hospital
facility, she was shocked.
She thought they
were children, again,
based on the size of the
outline under the sheets
on the gurneys.
And then she saw
one of them move.
And she saw, again, the larger
head and the larger eyes.
And it was something that
affected her as well,
for the rest of her life.
>> From the military hospital,
telephone calls were made
to the only funeral
home in Roswell,
the Ballard Funeral Home, a
call that was made 64 years ago.
Glenn Dennis took
the call but did not
understand the unusual
request made by the Army.
>> And Glenn's story was
that at first the calls were
as to the availability
of child-sized caskets.
Do you have any
children's caskets?
OK, that was believable.
But then there were
follow-up calls
as to what type
of chemicals could
be used for the preservation
of bodily tissue and bodily
fluids.
>> On the next call,
other requests were made,
and Glenn Dennis was asked to
personally visit the military
hospital.
>> And that's when
Glenn, entering the back
of the hospital, encountered the
nurse who warned him to quickly
get out of there, that
something had happened,
that he shouldn't be there.
And that's when he was
accosted by the military.
And that's when they made
the comment to him about,
they'd be digging his
bones out of the sand
if he didn't keep his
mouth shut about it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Don Schmidt, the key
investigator in the Roswell
case, believes that some
preliminary examinations were
done at the funeral home and
at the military hospital.
It was found the
autopsies were performed
at other military
facilities too.
This would be the first
time that the Armed Forces
of the United States
had recovered bodies
of intelligent, nonhuman,
alien beings, bodies
that had been recovered in San
Antonio from the crashed ships.
Now, they had irrefutable
evidence in their possession
that showed the presence of
beings of unknown origin.
For some, it was evident
that the United States
was in grave danger.
The news had to be
stopped and controlled,
kept in the strictest
secrecy or, otherwise, it
would cause national panic.
[SOUND EFFECT]
>> On the next
edition of "Nuevo,"
we hear the testimony of those
who were threatened as well
as the post-mortem statement
left to us by Walter Haut,
the one who made public the
press release announcing
the crash landing
of an alien ship.
I am Jaime Maussan,
and I'll see you
on the next episode of "Nuevo."
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo,"
with Jaime Maussan.